# Test Automation Framework

This project provides a **test automation framework** for both API and UI, built with **Playwright + TypeScript** using POM.  
It includes test files generated by script: api-tests-generator.ts

---

## Prerequisites

Clone the repository: 

```bash
git clone <https://github.com/SaraP24/UI-API-Framework-DEMO.git>
```

Install project dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

---

## API Test Automation Section

### Generate Tests from Swagger
Automatically generates a `generated-petstore.spec.ts` file in the `tests/` folder with test cases for all endpoints defined in the Petstore Swagger.

```bash
npm run generate:petstore
```

#### Details:
- Reads the Swagger file from https://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json.
- Creates tests for all HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).
- If the endpoint requires a request body, generates a valid payload using examples or schemas from the Swagger file.
- Uses `expect()` to validate that the status code is 200.

### Run Generated Tests
Run only the file generated by the script above.

```bash
npm run test:petstore
```

#### Command:
```bash
npx playwright test tests/generated-petstore.spec.ts
```
- Displays results in the console and generates an HTML report if configured in `playwright.config.ts`.

---

## UI Test Automation Section

### Test Structure
UI tests are organized in the `tests/ui/` folder and are divided by functionality. Each `.spec.ts` file contains test cases for a specific feature.

### Run All UI Tests
Run all UI tests:

```bash
npm run test:ui
```

Run UI tests with headed mode:

```bash
$env:PW_HEADLESS = 'false'; npm run test:ui:headed
```

Run UI tests in debug mode:

```bash
npm run test:ui:debug
```

#### Details:
- Uses Playwright to interact with the UI.
- Validates visible elements, text, and expected behaviors.
- Generates HTML reports if configured in `playwright.config.ts`.

### Run Specific Tests
Run a specific test file:

```bash
npx playwright test tests/ui/001_Product_List_Information.spec.ts
```

Run a specific test case within a file:

```bash
npx playwright test tests/ui/001_Product_List_Information.spec.ts --grep "001 - Validate get product list information from first N pages"
```

---

## Run All Tests
Run all `.spec.ts` files in the `tests/` folder.

```bash
npm run test
```

---



